Okay.
So the next thing that I'd like to do is to write a test suite for our job filters, sidebar organizations
component.
We actually don't have a test file at all for this.
So let's go ahead and created and then test the logic we implemented in the previous lesson.
So right here in my file Explorer, I'm going to head to my tests unit components directory.
And here I actually want to create a folder to mirror the directory structure that I have here for my
component.
So this component is actually going to be within job results.
And in here I want to add an additional folder called Job Filters Sidebar.
And in that folder, I want to create my test file, which will have the component name, job filters,
sidebar organizations.
However, of course, the extension will be that test that yes, I'm going to collapse the sidebar and
I'm going to bring the test file over to the right.
All right.
So first step, we begin with our import of our mounting function.
In this scenario, we're actually going to need to import mount and I'll explain why in a second.
But let's import mount from view test utils.
Okay.
So the issue here in our component is that we're actually rendering all of our custom HTML within the
top level accordion component.
As a reminder, that accordion component is the one that enables the collapse ability, the expandability
of that little section on the sidebar.
The problem is from the perspective of the view test utils, accordion is a child component.
So if we were to use shallow mount, the test would say, hey, this is a child component that you're
rendering in your test.
Therefore, I have to replace it with a stub because that's what shallow mount does.
Unfortunately, if we replace this accordion with a stub, then all of the content that we place here,
which is really slot content for the accordion implementation, that will no longer work because from
the tests perspective, accordion will now be some kind of accordion stub that represents something
else, some kind of more lightweight HTML.
So in order to keep all this functionality and keep this slotted content rendering as it should, we
have to render the full accordion as it is.
And so in order to render the real component, instead of a stub replacement, we have to use the mount
function instead of shallow mount.
Okay.
So we're going to import mount.
The next thing I want to import is my actual component, which is job filters, sidebar organizations,
and that is coming from my source directory represented by my at sign.
Then components, job results, job filters, sidebar.
That's kind of our parent category folder.
And then in here I have my job filter is sidebar organization's component.
And again, the reason we're doing this, even though it's a very verbose name, is because whenever
we have a bunch of related components that kind of cluster together, kind of inseparably under a feature,
it's a good idea to prefix them with that feature.
So in this case, our feature is the job filter sidebar.
This organization's collapsible section is one smaller puzzle piece of that some prefix thing that organizations
name with that job filter, sidebar prefix, and I'm nesting this all within a folder.
Again, this is not a view specific thing.
It's a matter of how you'd like to organize your project so that it's easy to find related components.
But this is an official recommendation from the View Style Guide.
That's why we have this super long component name.
So within our job filter sidebar directory, we're going to have our job filter a sidebar organizations
component.
And I'm just going to add the view extension here, even though it's technically not necessary.
Okay.
Then we can write our first described block.
We are testing our job filters, sidebar, organizations, component.
And let's write a test here.
What is this component responsible for?
It renders unique list of organizations for filtering jobs.
That's really the value of this presents to the user.
Okay.
So as a quick reminder of how we've tested view related functionality before here in our component,
we have a dollar sign store property.
And as a reminder, View X is going to add this to every single component from our tests perspective.
That means in order for this computed property to run, we're going to need a dollar sign store property
available under this keyword.
However, it does not need to be a real value store.
It just needs to be a plain object that can play the role.
So what does our object need to have?
It needs to have a getters property and needs to have a unique organization's property.
All right.
So let me set this up and I'm going to do it in a slightly weird order.
Let's say we're just going to define a concept called Dollar Sign Store, and I'm going to leave it
to be an empty object for now.
We're going to come back to this in just a minute.
And I just want to show you how all of this is hardwired, because this is kind of a review of what
we've done before.
So as a reminder, what we can do is we can define our wrapper constant.
We can mount our job filter, sidebar, organization's component.
And then as this as the second argument, we provide our configuration object.
And in here we can provide a global property.
That global property is going to be an object.
That object is going to have a max property.
And here we can specify any of those global properties that we want to replace.
So simply by placing dollar sign store here and using s syntax, what this is telling our test is take
your job filter cyber organization's component and make sure this that dollar sign store is whatever
we provide here.
So in this case, it's going to be whatever object we want.
But because we're using E-6, we're simply referencing this object on line number seven.
And of course, we'll populate it with the required properties that we need in just a second.
Before we proceed, though, I do want to remind you that our accordion component right here is actually
utilizing a font awesome icon.
Here's a quick reminder for you.
In the accordion component, we're using this font awesome icon to render that carrot that is either
pointing down or up.
And because we're doing a full mount, we're going to render accordion and thus also render its font
awesome icon component, which will render that familiar error message that says, hey, I don't know
what font awesome icon is.
So as a reminder, the way that we can fix that is by adding a stubs property here, that's going to
be an object.
And here we say that whenever you find a font awesome icon component, feel free to stub that out with
your default implementation by simply providing a true right here.
Okay.
So this is hopefully all review from what we've done before.
But now the question becomes how how do we define the properties in the store?
Well, we can look at exactly what our component needs, needs the store object, and that store needs
to have a getters property.
Otherwise, it's not going to be able to reference it.
And then what does getters need to have?
It needs to have unique organizations as a property.
So here's where things get really interesting, right from view's perspective or a View X is unique
organizations is actually a method name and that method is invoked and view X is going to give it this
store state as it stands.
Then all of that logic is going to run and calculate the set for us, etc. From the perspective of the
component though, it doesn't really care, right?
From the from the perspective of the component, it's just accessing this property and view knows how
to translate this logic into the right getter into our store.
But from the purposes of this component, as long as this property exists and gives us back a set in
the test or really any iterable object for that matter, because we're using V four and that could be
anything that could be an array.
The point is, we don't need to incorporate view into this.
We just need unique organizations to be something that works because this is the core logic of what
this component is doing.
It's defining a computed property that needs to access all of these nested properties.
As long as these nested properties exist in our test world, they don't need to be like the real ones,
right?
So what I'm saying here is if I simply make unique organizations a simple property that returns something
like a set, I'm going to emulate an environment that is very similar to how the component actually
works in the real world.
Without having to incorporate all the complexity of the View Store, I don't need to define a View bookstore
in order to test that the unique organization's getter is working because from the perspective of the
component, it's just saying, Hey, get or do this logic.
It doesn't care how the getter does it, it doesn't care.
It just cares.
That's going to get some kind of return value from it that it can iterate over.
And that's exactly what I'm providing it here on this, providing it a sample set.
So in here I can simply give it an array to populate that set with some initial strings.
So for example, I can say unique organizations is just going to be a set with, let's say two strings
of Google and Amazon.
So now in my test component, I expect that I should have two list items, one for each of those organizations.
And now I've completely disconnected myself from the View Store.
No, no matter how I want to implement that getter logic, I don't care from the component.
The component is just testing the interaction with the store and its nested properties and its nested
getters.
We don't care how Vue is going to translate this to a method call and pass the state because that is
Vue views responsibility.
That is the library's responsibility for from our perspective, we want to test our code, our component
and all this component is doing is accessing properties.
All right.
So I hope that explanation makes sense.
And so now we can wire up our assertions.
So I'm going to do something here that I'm actually not a fan of.
And the reason is because it requires the test to know a little bit about the accordion component.
But unfortunately, it's part of our current design.
Basically, as you may recall, the accordion is going to start off in a collapsed state.
So because the accordion is collapsed, this content that we provide as slot content is actually not
visible when our component is mounted.
So we need to first click the accordion so that it expands, thus revealing this content.
Well, how can we click the accordion?
Well, as a reminder, our accordion has a data test attribute right here called Clickable Area.
So because we're doing a full mount, I'm going to look for this clickable area data test attribute.
The reason I really don't like this is because I'm looking at a child component of the component that
I'm testing.
We will, I think, move away from this test a little bit later in the course.
But for now, this is a simple way that we can simply target the accordion, click it to expand it,
and then actually look for the things we care about.
All right.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to say content, clickable area, and I'm going to look for
that data test attribute that is actually rendered in the accordion.
So wrapper find we're looking for a data test attribute equal to clickable area that's going to be clickable
area with a dash close off that square brackets and then I'm going to click it.
And as a reminder, the way we do that is by doing clickable area and then we can trigger a click on
it.
So trigger is a method.
We provide it with the event we want to activate.
We want a click event.
This is an asynchronous event, so it returns a promise.
We need to await this until it's complete and until the component refreshes.
And in order to use the await keyword here, we need to make our test asynchronous by adding async right
here.
Okay.
So now that our accordion is expanded, we can actually look for the thing that we want to look for
and test the logic that I want to test.
So what do I ultimately want to test?
I want to test that given that I have simulated a unique organization set of two two strings.
I expect to see two list items or two labels, and I should see those two organizations listed in line.
Right.
I should have two checkboxes, one for Google, one for Amazon.
So I'm going to look for.
A concept called organization labels because that is the the content that's actually going to store
my organization name is going to be the label right here on line 12.
So I'm going to look for those and I'm going to assume that they're going to have some kind of data
test attribute.
There's going to be two of them because I'm iterating twice.
So instead of using find, I'm going to find I'm going to use find all as a reminder find all returns
an array that stores all the matches that the test utils found in your implementation.
So I'm going to look for all the elements that I can find that have a data test attribute.
Equal to organization and this data test attribute will not exist right now.
We're going to add to it in just a second.
So this this should give me an array, ideally of two nodes representing the two labels I have right
here.
What I want to do is I want to take those nodes and I want to get the nested text that they have, because
that nested text should be my organization, name of Google and Amazon.
What I'm really testing for is this interpolation right here.
As I iterate over my set, I want to render that company's name right here in line.
So I'm going to say to organizations I can take my organization labels array.
I can map over every element in here, and every element here is basically an optimal node.
It's going to call it node.
And on that note, I'm going to have a method called text.
Text is going to give me the actual text that it's rendering to the DOM, to the browser.
So when I use the map method, I'm going to get back an array from an array of two HTML nodes.
I'm going to get back an array of two strings.
And of course, I expect that array of two strings to be my two organization names.
So I expect organizations.
To equal an array equal to Google and Amazon.
Basically what I'm testing here is given a set of these two strings.
I've expected that you have created two labels for them, and those two labels have the exact same text
that I've given to you in the set that I am giving to you from this fictional store that has this getters
property that is simulating a real view X store.
So with that, I'm going to run, NPM, run, test, call and watch.
And let's see if this works.
And of course it should fail because we do not have our data to attribute, which is great.
So what I'm going to do is head to my label right here and here.
I'm going to add the data test attribute that we look for in the test, which of course, is just organization.
And as a reminder, we can totally have the same data test attribute on the on on a label.
So because we're going to have a V4 over two organizations, we're going to create two labels to labels
that are both going to have this same data test of organization.
We are not binding or anything, so it's just literally going to be the string organization which allows
my find all to have two matches and then get that array of two nodes.
All right.
So everything is working as we expect here.
The test is passing just to make this fail.
What I'm going to do is remove my interpolation.
I've got to remove the curly braces.
So expect to get a failure here because it's going to say, hey, I expected Google and Amazon, but
I'm actually getting to empty strings.
That proves to us that we don't have a false positive.
Our test is passing correctly when viewers able to find the predictable strings that it wants in here
based on the iteration of the set, I'm going to save that.
Our test is passing and that completes our test.
So not a perfect test because we are still mounting and we are reaching a little bit too deep into the
accordion component for my liking, but good enough for now.
And so in the next lesson, we're going to see how we can optimize our current implementation a little
bit more.